README.md, before:

# Scuttle

`scuttle` Is a wrapper application that makes it easy to run containers next to Istio sidecars.  It ensures the main application doesn't start until envoy is ready, and that the istio sidecar shuts down when the application exits.  This particularly useful for Jobs that need Istio sidecar injection, as the Istio pod would otherwise run indefinitely after the job is completed.

This application, if provided an `ENVOY_ADMIN_API` environment variable,
will poll indefinitely with backoff, waiting for envoy to report itself as live, implying it has loaded cluster configuration (for example from an ADS server). Only then will it execute the command provided as an argument.

All signals are passed to the underlying application. Be warned that `SIGKILL` cannot be passed, so this can leave behind a orphaned process.

When the application exits, unless `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` has been set and the exit code is non-zero, `scuttle` will instruct envoy to shut down immediately.

## Environment variables

| Variable                      | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ENVOY_ADMIN_API`             | This is the path to envoy's administration interface, in the format `http://127.0.0.1:15000`. If provided, `scuttle` will poll this url at `/server_info` waiting for envoy to report as `LIVE`. If provided and local (`127.0.0.1` or `localhost`), then envoy will be instructed to shut down if the application exits cleanly.                                                                                      |
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO`            | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit under any circumstances.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit if the main binary has exited with a non-zero exit code.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `SCUTTLE_LOGGING`             | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will log various steps to the console which is helpful for debugging                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY`         | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not wait for envoy to be LIVE before starting the main application. However, it will still instruct envoy to exit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`      | If provided and set to a valid `time.Duration` string greater than 0 seconds, `scuttle` will wait for that amount of time before starting the main application. By default, it will wait indefinitely. If `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set as well, it will take precedence over this variable                                                                                                                      |
| `ISTIO_QUIT_API`              | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to `/quitquitquit` at the given API.  Should be in format `http://127.0.0.1:15020`.  This is intended for Istio v1.3 and higher.  When not given, Istio will be stopped using a `pkill` command.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS`      | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to the URL given.  Multiple URLs are supported and must be provided as a CSV string.  Should be in format `http://myendpoint.com` or `http://myendpoint.com,https://myotherendpoint.com`.  The status code response is logged (if logging is enabled) but is not used.  A 200 is treated the same as a 404 or 500. `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS` is handled before Istio is stopped. |
| `QUIT_REQUEST_TIMEOUT`        | A deadline provided as a valid `time.Duration` string for requests to the `/quitquitquit` and/or the generic endpoints. If the deadline is exceeded `scuttle` gives up and exits cleanly. The default value is `5s`.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`  | If provided and set to a valid duration, `scuttle` will exit if Envoy does not become available before the end of the timeout and not continue with the passed in executable. If `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY` is also set, this variable will not be taken into account. Also, if `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set, this variable will take precedence.                                                                        |

## How Scuttle stops Istio

Scuttle has two methods to stop Istio.  You should configure Scuttle appropriately based on the version of Istio you are using.

| Istio Version | Method |
|---------------|--------|
| 1.3 and higher| `/quitquitquit` endpoint |
| 1.2 and lower | `pkill` command |

### Istio 1.3 and higher

Version 1.3 of Istio introduced an endpoint `/quitquitquit` similar to Envoy.  By default this endpoint is available at `http://127.0.0.1:15020` which is the Pilot Agent service, responsible for managing envoy. ([Source](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/15041))

To enable this, set the environment variable `ISTIO_QUIT_API` to `http://127.0.0.1:15020`.

### Istio 1.2 and lower

Versions 1.2 and lower of Istio have no supported method to stop Istio Sidecars.  As a workaround Scuttle stops Istio using the command `pkill -SIGINT pilot-agent`.

To enable this, you must add `shareProcessNamespace: true` to your **Pod** definition in Kubernetes. This allows Scuttle to stop the service running on the sidecar container.

*Note:* This method is used by default if `ISTIO_QUIT_API` is not set

## Example usage in your Job's `Dockerfile`

```dockerfile
FROM python:latest
# Below command makes scuttle available in path
COPY --from=kvij/scuttle:latest /scuttle /bin/scuttle
WORKDIR /app
COPY /app/ ./
ENTRYPOINT ["scuttle", "python", "-m", "my_app"]
```

## Credits

This repo is a blatant copy and continuation of `redboxllc/scuttle`.
Unfortunately [the original author/maintainer lost access](https://github.com/redboxllc/scuttle/pull/60#issuecomment-1342925256) and `redboxllc/scuttle` is no longer maintained.

Credits in turn from `redboxllc/scuttle`
- Origin code is forked from the [envoy-preflight](https://github.com/monzo/envoy-preflight) project on Github, which works for envoy but not for Istio sidecars.

Commit message:

Remove outdated kill method to stop sidecar
Sending the kill signal was needed for Istio < v1.3 and 1.3 has been
released 4 years ago.

If the `ENVOY_ADMIN_API` is set to the default port `15000` the
`ISTIO_QUIT_API` configured correctly by default.
On deployments that restart the containers the shutdown behaviour might
be undesirable.
The Istio sidecar will be restarted but when the pod has multiple
containers that means that meaningful work in the containers that did
not crash could be interrupted.

So for pods that have multiple containers that need traffic through the
service mesh, it is recommended to set `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO` to `true`.

README.md, after:

# Scuttle

`scuttle` Is a wrapper application that makes it easy to run containers next to Istio sidecars.  It ensures the main application doesn't start until envoy is ready, and that the istio sidecar shuts down when the application exits.  This particularly useful for Jobs that need Istio sidecar injection, as the Istio pod would otherwise run indefinitely after the job is completed.

This application, if provided an `ENVOY_ADMIN_API` environment variable,
will poll indefinitely with backoff, waiting for envoy to report itself as live, implying it has loaded cluster configuration (for example from an ADS server). Only then will it execute the command provided as an argument.

All signals are passed to the underlying application. Be warned that `SIGKILL` cannot be passed, so this can leave behind a orphaned process.

When the application exits, unless `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` or `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO` have been set to `true`, `scuttle` will instruct envoy to shut down immediately.

## Environment variables

| Variable                      | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ENVOY_ADMIN_API`             | This is the path to envoy's administration interface, in the format `http://127.0.0.1:15000`. If provided, `scuttle` will poll this url at `/server_info` waiting for envoy to report as `LIVE`. If provided and local (`127.0.0.1` or `localhost`), then envoy will be instructed to shut down if the application exits cleanly.                                                                                      |
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO`            | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit under any circumstances.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit if the main binary has exited with a non-zero exit code.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `SCUTTLE_LOGGING`             | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will log various steps to the console which is helpful for debugging                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY`         | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not wait for envoy to be LIVE before starting the main application. However, it will still instruct envoy to exit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`      | If provided and set to a valid `time.Duration` string greater than 0 seconds, `scuttle` will wait for that amount of time before starting the main application. By default, it will wait indefinitely. If `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set as well, it will take precedence over this variable                                                                                                                      |
| `ISTIO_QUIT_API`              | This is the path to envoy's pilot agent interface, in the format `http://127.0.0.1:15020`. If not provided and the `ENVOY_ADMIN_API` is configured with the default port `15000`, the setting is configured automatically. If present (configured or deducted) `scuttle` will send a POST to `/quitquitquit` at the url.                                                                                               |
| `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS`      | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to the URL given.  Multiple URLs are supported and must be provided as a CSV string.  Should be in format `http://myendpoint.com` or `http://myendpoint.com,https://myotherendpoint.com`.  The status code response is logged (if logging is enabled) but is not used.  A 200 is treated the same as a 404 or 500. `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS` is handled before Istio is stopped. |
| `QUIT_REQUEST_TIMEOUT`        | A deadline provided as a valid `time.Duration` string for requests to the `/quitquitquit` and/or the generic endpoints. If the deadline is exceeded `scuttle` gives up and exits cleanly. The default value is `5s`.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`  | If provided and set to a valid duration, `scuttle` will exit if Envoy does not become available before the end of the timeout and not continue with the passed in executable. If `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY` is also set, this variable will not be taken into account. Also, if `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set, this variable will take precedence.                                                                        |

## Example usage in your Job's `Dockerfile`

```dockerfile
FROM python:latest
# Below command makes scuttle available in path
COPY --from=kvij/scuttle:latest /scuttle /bin/scuttle
WORKDIR /app
COPY /app/ ./
ENTRYPOINT ["scuttle", "python", "-m", "my_app"]
```

## Credits

This repo is a blatant copy and continuation of `redboxllc/scuttle`.
Unfortunately [the original author/maintainer lost access](https://github.com/redboxllc/scuttle/pull/60#issuecomment-1342925256) and `redboxllc/scuttle` is no longer maintained.

Credits in turn from `redboxllc/scuttle`
- Origin code is forked from the [envoy-preflight](https://github.com/monzo/envoy-preflight) project on Github, which works for envoy but not for Istio sidecars.
